.Dd November 24, 2001
.Os LINUX 2.4
.Dt CDUCK 1 URM
.Sh NAME
cduck
.Nd
Capibara Distributed Url Cloaking Kit
.Sh DESCRIPTION

The Capibara Distributed Url Cloaking Kit (cduck) is a set of programs
that can be used to create a reliable distributed url cloaking service
using low q.o.s. connections (like *DSL or cable) with static IP addresses.

The kit consists of 3 daemon scripts and a update script.

The capcron.pl script is meant to run from the crontab of the 'capfetch'
user. This script is responsible for keeping the databases synchronized
between nodes.

The capdns.pl script is a simple DNS daemon that takes care of the DNS
part of the cloaking system. The basic function of this DNS server is to
provide the reliability to the cloaking system, it will effectively
answer most DNS queries with a 'thats me' answer.

The capdb.pl script is a local daemon meant to serve the caphttp.pl
processes with lookup information for the url cloaking service. 

The caphttp.pl script is a simple http server responsible for the actual
url cloaking service.

.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The fact that this software uses both server and client components, and
could in many instances be run on a system that is also used as a
workstation lies some specific demands on the operating environment.
CDUCK needs several containment measures for its security:

The usage of a different user for each of the subsystems.

The usage of strict ACL for its working directory.

The usage of a chrooted environment for the total set of subsystems

The usage of user based firewall rules as supplied by the Linux 2.4
kernel.

With the current version the first two measures are taken by the install
scripts, the last two measures however are not yet part of the installation
script, and need therefore to be configured manually.
.Sh FILES
/usr/local/capibara/cduck/etc/cduck.conf  
/usr/local/capibara/cduck/etc/cduck_node.conf
.\" .Sh EXAMPLES
.Sh SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBcduck.conf\fR(5) \fBcduck_node.conf\fR(5) \fBcapcron.pl\fR(1) \fBcapdns.pl\fR(1) \fBcapdb.pl\fR(1) \fBcaphttp.pl\fR
(1) \fBcaptids.pl\fR (1)
.\" .Sh STANDARDS
.Sh HISTORY
This toolkit is derived from the former Capibara free url cloaking
service that has been the first free public url cloaking service in the
period from  1995 until the beginning of 2001.
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written  by  Rob J Meijer <rmeijer@xs4all.nl>, for
the GNU/Linux system
