.Dd November 30, 2001
.Os LINUX 2.4
.Dt CDUCK_NODE.CONF 5 URM
.Sh NAME
cduck_node.conf
.Nd
Capibara Distributed Url Cloaking Kit: Configuration , node
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The configuration of the Capibara Distributed Url Cloaking Kit is build
up around two main configuration files, and two types of zone files.

The main configuration file is split in two for sharing reasons. The
/usr/local/capibara/cduck/etc/cduck_node.conf holds those configuration
parameters specific for the node. The /usr/local/capibara/cduck/etc/cduck.conf
file holds those parts of the configuration that can be shared amongst
the different nodes of a c-duck system. 

The cduck_node.conf file is a fairly simple configuration file. It has a set of 3
different configuration lines. Each config line exists of a parameter and a value
separated by one or more space characters. 

\fBbindip\fR

This configuration parameter sets the (dotted decimal notation) IP address the cduck servers
should use to bind to on this node.

\fBextip\fR

This configuration parameter sets the (dotted decimal notation) IP address the cduck servers
on this node is reachable on from the Internet. This in most cases would be the same IP address
as the bindip address, however some configurations that place the server behind a NAT layer
may need these to be different values.


\fBrp\fR

This configuration parameter sets the RP value cduck should use in SOA responses. The notation
of this e-mail address should be formatted as specified in rfc1034/1335. In most cases this means
replacing the '@' by a '.' 

.Sh EXAMPLES

\fBcduck_node.conf\fR
.nf

bindip  192.168.1.250
extip   213.84.11.75
rp      rmeijer.xs4all.nl
.fi

.Sh SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBcduck.conf\fR(5) \fBcduck\fR(1) \fBcapcron.pl\fR(1) \fBcapdns.pl\fR(1) \fBcapdb.pl\fR(1) \fBcaphttp.pl\fR(1) \fBcaptids.pl\fR (1)
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written  by  Rob J Meijer <rmeijer@xs4all.nl>, for the GNU/Linux system
