.Dd November 24, 2001
.Os LINUX 2.4
.Dt CDUCK.CONF 5 URM
.Sh NAME
cduck.conf
.Nd
Capibara Distributed Url Cloaking Kit: Configuration
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The configuration of the Capibara Distributed Url Cloaking Kit is build
up around two main configuration files, and two types of zone files.

The main configuration file is split in two for sharing reasons. The
/usr/local/capibara/cduck/etc/cduck_node.conf holds those configuration
parameters specific for the node. The /usr/local/capibara/cduck/etc/cduck.conf
file holds those parts of the configuration that can be shared amongst
the different nodes of a c-duck system. cduck.conf can in many cases be shared
amongst the nodes. 

The cduck.conf file can make use of http included include files that have
the same syntax as the cduck.conf file itself. Thus the flexibility of the
configuration over different nodes will be as complete as possible
\fBNote: a configuration line will 'not' be overruled ones it is declared,
so please consider this when placing include rules in the config files
\fR
As cduck makes use of low q.o.s. systems it is suggested that the actual
config files are stored on some external high q.o.s. http servers. For this 
reason most of the configuration lines in cduck.conf use a http URL as parameter.

\fBThe cduck.conf file\fR

The cduck.conf file (and all url's included from it) consist of
configuration lines. There are currently 4 types of configuration line
types defined:

\fBserver\fR lines:

	server	<name>	<ip>

The server lines define all the different nodes for a cloaking
group. These servers will be identified as the NS servers for all the main
domains served.

\fBzone\fR lines:

	zone	<domain>	<url>	<maxlines>

The zone lines identify the domains and name-server zone-files for the
cloaking group.

\fBmap\fR lines:

	map	<domain>	<url>	<maxlines>

The map lines point to the url's of the map files for the domains served by
the cloaking group. The '*' domain has special meaning. It is the only
domain that does not have a zone file associated with it as it involves the
zone

The \fBmaxlines\fR argument is meant for resource protection, the map and
zone files will not be allowed more than that number of lines.

\fBinclude\fR lines:

	include	<url>

The include lines refer to other cduck.conf type files that are to be
included in processing. Please note that implicit trust is assumed for
included files with the exception of the 'no overrule' rule that can be
used for some simple protection.

\fBThe ulog and ilog files\fR

The cduck etc dir will contain one of the files ilog or ulog. If syslog should use
a remote syslog server than the file ilog must exist. If the syslog process should
use the local /dev/log socket, than the ulog file must exist.
This file has as content the name of the syslog facility to use. Only one of the following
facilities is legal to use:

"daemon","local0","local1","local2","local3","local4","local5","local6","local7","user"

If non of these is pressent in the file than the default "user" facility will be used
by all cduck daemons. 

\fBZONE Files\fR

The zone files describe some DNS RR's that are different than the default
 'thats me / thats us' behavior. Currently supported RR's are \fBA\fR ,
\fBMX\fR and \fBNS\fR records. Most NS, A and SOA records are declared
implicitly from the server lines in cduck.conf and the configuration in the
cduck_node.conf file.

The A record is formatted as follows:

	<name>	A	<ip>

The NS record is formatted as follows:

	<name>	NS	<nsname>	<nsip>	<nsname>	<nsip>

The MX record is formatted as follows:

	<NAME>	MX	<mxname>	<mxip>	<mxname>	<mxip>

MX records are the only record type that have no implicit default. To set
the MX for a domain you must use the "_" as name. This will prompt cduck
to use the name of the zone  as record name.	

Please note that all names are considered to be in the zone being
described. No domains should be used in the zone files themselves.

\fBMAP Files\fR

The map files are used for constructing the cloaking HTML code. The map
files for a zone exist of four types of lines that together are used as a
map.
All lines in the file are build out of a key and a value (this will be put
into a db file by the \fBcapcron.pl\fR script), the key and value are
separated by a semicolon.

The \fBmap\fR keys are the fully qualified domain names, where a valid
mapper will have a '1' value. The \fBurl\fR keys consist of the domain
prefixed with 'url:', and have the cloaked url as their value.
The \fBtitle\fR keys consists of the domain prefixed with 'titel:', and
have the title for the cloaking url as their value. Finally the
\fBkeywords\fR keys consist of the domain prefixed with 'keywords:' and
have a META type keywords list as value, that will be used in the
cloaking code meta tags for use by search engines.


.Sh EXAMPLES

\fBcduck.conf\fR
.nf
server  ns1             213.84.11.74
map     *               http://capibara.xs4all.nl:8088/mirror/wildcard.map
zone    capibara.com    http://capibara.xs4all.nl:8088/mirror/capibara.zone
map     capibara.com    http://capibara.xs4all.nl:8088/mirror/capibara.map
zone    op.nu           http://capibara.xs4all.nl:8088/mirror/opnu.zone
map     op.nu           http://capibara.xs4all.nl:8088/mirror/opnu.map
include	                http://www.xs4all.nl/~rmeijer/cduck.conf
.fi

\fBzone-files\fR
.nf
valey        NS   ns5 205.166.226.38  ns6 64.63.77.89
urej         NS   ns5 205.166.226.38  ns6 64.63.77.89
dextroyer    NS   ns5 205.166.226.38  ns6 64.63.77.89
schiet       A    194.109.190.190
testbox      A    213.84.11.75
_            MX   12.23.34.45   
.fi

\fBmap-files\fR

.nf
acrogym.op.nu;1
keywords:acrogym.op.nu;acrogym, akrobatiek, acrobatiek, HLC
titel:acrogym.op.nu;Informatie over AcroGym
url:acrogym.op.nu;http://home-1.12move.nl/~sh110583/
spoofaudit.op.nu;1
keywords:spoofaudit.op.nu;xcapi
titel:spoofaudit.op.nu;spoofaudit.op.nu
url:spoofaudit.op.nu;http://www.xs4all.nl/~rmeijer/spoofaudit.html
.fi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBcduck_node.conf\fR(5) \fBcduck\fR(1) \fBcapcron.pl\fR(1) \fBcapdns.pl\fR(1) \fBcapdb.pl\fR(1) \fBcaphttp.pl\fR(1) \fBcaptids.pl\fR (1)
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written  by  Rob J Meijer <rmeijer@xs4all.nl>, for
the GNU/Linux system
