.Dd March 25, 2002
.Os LINUX 2.4
.Dt TIDS.CONF 5 URM
.Sh NAME
tids.conf
.Nd
Trivial Intrusion Detection System: Configuration
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The configuration of the Trivial Intrusion Detection 
System for cduck is is done through the file tids.conf.
This file consists of single line configurations 
representing  single configuration parameters.

\fBmdevice\fR

This configuration parameter sets the name of the 
device that cduck should use to do pcap network 
monitoring for the 'bait' strings. 
Instead of using the device name the format 
'lookup <ip>'
might also be used as mdevice parameter. 
In what case captids will try to lookup the device 
name using ifconfig.

\fBmfilter\fR

This configuration parameter sets the pcap filter 
for the monitoring process. 
This will determine what portion of the traffic on 
mdevice is monitored.

\fBmtablesfifo\fR

This configuration parameter sets the FIFO that captids 
should use for the monitoring of syslog messages. 
If iptables and syslogd are configured as intended than 
an attempted  breach of the firewall rules would result in 
a 06 'kernel' syslog message being sent to the FIFO. 
Captids needs to read from this FIFO in order to be 
able to detect attempted breaches by compromised cduck 
subsystems.

\fBsystem\fR \fBchroot\fR \fBsrc\fR 

These three parameters are used to set the 'bait' strings 
for the ids. The installation of cduck with containment 
will create appropriate files in the main system dirs, 
in the dirs of the cduck chroot environment and in the 
source files of the cduck server scripts.

\fBmdevice\fR

This configuration parameter sets the name of the device 
that cduck bring down if it is configured to bring down 
the interface on a particular breach event. Instead of using 
the device name the format 'lookup <ip>' might also be 
used as device parameter. 
In what case captids will try to lookup the device name 
using ifconfig.

\fBtables\fR

This configuration parameter sets the names of the 
iptables that cduck bring down if it is configured 
to bring down the tables on a particular breach event.

\fBusers\fR

This configuration parameter sets the names of the 
users of who cduck brings down all the processes if it 
is configured to bring down the users on a particular 
breach event.


\fBlfilter\fR

This configuration parameter sets the pcap filter for 
the logging process. 
The logging process will keep limited a buffer of 
matching IP frames and will flush all these frames 
to a pcap file if it is prompted by one of the monitoring 
processes of captids.

\fBlbuffer\fR

This configuration parameter sets the maximum size of 
the buffer for the pcap logging process. 

\fBbreach chroot\fR ,  \fBbreach src\fR ,  \fBbreach tables\fR , \fBbreach system\fR , 

These configuration parameter set the actions that are 
to be taken if captids detects a particular type of a 
security breach.
The actions that could be taken are:

  \fBtables\fR : shut down the configured iptables.
  \fBusers\fR : shut down the processes of the configured users.
  \fBinterface\fR : shut down the configured interface.
  \fBnorestart\fR : create a 'norestart' file to indicate to 
    the cduck rc script that it shouldn't restart cduck.


.fi
.Sh FILES
/usr/local/capibara/security/tids.conf
.Sh SEE ALSO
.PP
\fBcduck\fR(1) \fBcaptids.pl\fR(1)
.Sh AUTHORS
This manual page was written  by  Rob J Meijer <rmeijer@xs4all.nl>, for the GNU/Linux system
